docs: ADR-60 Prepare & Process Proposal (#12838)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-060-baseapp++.md

## Context

Tendermint will release ABCI++ in phases. Notably, at the time of this writing,
Tendermint is releasing v0.37.0 which will include `PrepareProposal` and `ProcessProposal`.

The `PrepareProposal` ABCI method is concerned with a block proposer requesting
the application to evaluate a series of transactions to be included in the next
block, defined as a slice of `TxRecord` objects. The application can either
accept, reject, or completely ignore some or all of these transactions. This is
an important consideration to make as the application can essentially define and
control its own mempool allowing it to define sophisticated transaction priority
and filtering mechanisms, by completely ignoring the `TxRecords` Tendermint
sends it, favoring its own transactions. This essentially means that the Tendermint
mempool acts more like a gossip data structure.

The second ABCI method, `ProcessProposal`, is used to process the block proposer's
proposal as defined by `PrepareProposal`. This ABCI method requests that the
application evaluate the entire proposed block for validity.

It is important to note that in this phase of ABCI++ integration, the application

> is NOT responsible for locking semantics -- Tendermint will still be responsible

Reviewer: Yes. Tendermint locking semantics do not change with this release. Subject to change in the future.

In order to provide a flexible approach to meet the varying needs of application
developers, we will define both a mempool interface and a data structure utilizing
Golang generics, allowing developers to focus only on transaction
ordering. Developers requiring absolute full control can implement their own
custom mempool implementation.

We define the general mempool interface as follows (subject to change):

```go
// MempoolTx we define a mempool transaction interface that is as minimal as
// possible, only requiring applications to define the size of the transaction
// to be used when reaping and getting the transaction itself. Interface type
// casting can be used in the actual mempool implementation.
type MempoolTx interface {
	// Size returns the size of the transaction in bytes.
	Size(codec.Codec) int
	Tx() sdk.Tx
}

type Mempool[T MempoolTx] interface {
	// Insert attempts to insert a MempoolTx into the mempool returning an error
	// upon failure.
	Insert(T) error
	// Reap returns the next available transaction in the mempool, returning an error
	// upon failure. The notion of 'available' or 'next' is defined by the application's
	// mempool implementation.

> 	Reap() (T, error)

Reviewer: Yes, they remove txs.

	// ReapMaxBytes performs the the same function as Reap, except it returns
	// multiple transactions limited by their total size.
	ReapMaxBytes(n int) ([]T, error)
	// NumTxs returns the number of transactions currently in the mempool.
	NumTxs() int
}
```

We will define an implementation of `Mempool[T MempoolTx]` that will cover a
majority of application use cases. Namely, it will prioritize transactions by
priority and transaction sender, allowing for multiple prioritized transactions
from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a simple
priority queue using a max binary heap, along with additional indexes/metadata
to store senders and their nonces.

Transaction reaping will essentially happen via a two-phase approach:

1. Reap one or more transactions from the priority queue and collect them into a 
   buffer.
2. For each transaction in the buffer, ensure it does not violate any nonce predicates.
3. Continue reaping until the desired number of valid transactions have been selected.
4. Re-insert any transactions remaining in the buffer.

```go

> type PriorityMempool[T MempoolTx] struct {

Reviewer: This basic implementation of a mempool, which I imagine dydx will most likely not use, will not have such a concept. It simply inserts valid txs from `CheckTx`.

> type PriorityMempool[T MempoolTx] struct {

Author: we should have an upper bound to the size, otherwise the amount of txs in the mempool could potentially be infinite (?)

> type PriorityMempool[T MempoolTx] struct {

Reviewer: Yes, we can add a fixed mempool size (bytes) configuration defined in `app.toml`, evicting the smallest such element S for an incoming element T, s.t. T's priority is higher and S doesn't violate the nonce constraint.

	queue   *PriorityQueue[MempoolTx]
	senders map[string][]int64
	// ...
}
```

Previous discussions<sup>1</sup> have come to the agreement that Tendermint will
perform a request to the application, via `PrepareProposalRequest`, with a certain
amount of transactions reaped from Tendermint's local mempool. The exact amount
of transactions reaped will be determined by a local operator configuration.
This is referred to as the "one-shot approach" seen in discussions.

When Tendermint reaps transactions from the local mempool and sends them to the
application via `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will have to evaluate
the transactions. Specifically, it will need to inform Tendermint if it should
reject and or include each transaction. Note, the application can even _replace_
transactions entirely with other transactions.

> When evaluating transactions from `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will

Reviewer: The basic mempool implementation will ignore them. You're encouraged to write your own mempool, which may or may not ignore them. The reason you'd want ignore them is so that the app can have full control over ordering, filtering, priority, etc.

> When evaluating transactions from `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will

Reviewer: But now that I think of it...the design as proposed might not allow for this flexibility. I think we have to august the `Mempool` interface as such:

```go
type Mempool[T MempoolTx] interface {
  ReapMaxBytes(txRecords tendermint.TxRecords, maxBytes int) ([]T, error)
}
```

WDYT? Also, it probably makes no sense to just have `Reap`. We can probably remove that.

> When evaluating transactions from `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will

Reviewer 2: That makes sense to me.

priority and transaction sender, allowing for multiple prioritized transactions
from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a simple
priority queue using a max binary heap, along with additional indexes/metadata
to store senders and their nonces.

Transaction reaping will essentially happen via a two-phase approach:

1. Reap one or more transactions from the priority queue and collect them into 
   one of two buffers -- _valid_ and _invalid_.
2. For transactions that DO NOT violate the nonce validation, they are included
   in the _valid_ buffer.
3. For transactions that DO violate the nonce validation, they are included in
   the _invalid_ buffer.
4. Continue this process until the desired number of valid transactions are
   reaped or until the mempool is empty.
5. Provide Tendermint the list of all transactions from the _valid_ buffer.
6. Re-insert all transactions, from both buffers, back into mempool. This is to
   ensure we do not discard transactions from the mempool in case `ProcessProposal`
   fails.

```go
type PriorityMempool[T MempoolTx] struct {
	queue   *PriorityQueue[MempoolTx]
	senders map[string][]int64
	// ...
}
```

> Previous discussions<sup>1</sup> have come to the agreement that Tendermint will

Reviewer 2: I think this is a good first step, but as an observation it seems like the responsibility of "who owns the mempool" is becoming a little fragmented between Tendermint and the Application. Maybe it makes sense in the future to give the Application even more control over what is cached, what should be gossiped, what should be rechecked, etc.

Reviewer 3: From my perspective, the ownership of the mempool should really _not_ be Tendermint's. This data structure serves too many masters and has too many diverse requirements from users to be able to really handle many of these requirements _well_. A future iteration of the mempool, should likely leave gossiping as a responsibility of Tendermint and hand off the majority of the remainder of the functionality to the application, where more custom and specific logic can quickly be implemented and changed.

Reviewer 2: @williambanfield That sounds pretty ideal to me. I hope to see things moving in that direction over time. Giving application developers more control over this (with sane defaults, of course) unlocks a lot of possibilities. 😄

Reviewer 3: Working on writing up some thoughts on this at the moment, will happily notify you for feedback when that document is ready: https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/issues/9240

Reviewer: Man, I could not agree with this more! I totally think we need to hammer this point down.

💯💯💯💯

perform a request to the application, via `PrepareProposalRequest`, with a certain
amount of transactions reaped from Tendermint's local mempool. The exact amount
of transactions reaped will be determined by a local operator configuration.
This is referred to as the "one-shot approach" seen in discussions.

When Tendermint reaps transactions from the local mempool and sends them to the
application via `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will have to evaluate
the transactions. Specifically, it will need to inform Tendermint if it should
reject and or include each transaction. Note, the application can even _replace_
transactions entirely with other transactions.

When evaluating transactions from `PrepareProposalRequest`, the application will
ignore _all_ transactions sent to it in the request and instead reap up to
`PrepareProposalRequest.max_tx_bytes` from it's own mempool. There is no need to
execute the transactions for validity as they have already passed CheckTx.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: There is zero difference between `CheckTx` and `ProcessProposal` when it comes to executing txs, apart from the base state used. There isn't anything custom or special about `ProcessProposal` with regards to AnteHandlers. So I'm not sure I completely follow the statement?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: > Further, each transaction is run through the handlers sequentially and therefore the Application never has an opportunity to validate things like ordering of the transactions in the proposal.

Can you define order validation?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 2: For example, we'd like to enforce via `ProcessProposal` that validators have proposed certain transactions in a particular order in the block. These are transactions with a single bespoke message _only_ submitted by the proposer. That is – they are never broadcasted by normal clients or gossiped in the mempool.

To validate these types of transactions/messages it sounds like we would need to write custom Antehandlers for each, because some of them read from state and thus the state needs to be validated.

At the very least, I think we will need something like `ctx.IsProcessProposal()` to determine whether this transaction is being run for `ProcessProposal`.

I am not sure how we would enforce an ordering or mandatory inclusion of a particular transaction in the proposal, because there would be no way to determine if we are processing the last transaction in the proposal.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: I think I understand what you're getting at. If you're requesting that we define `IsProcessProposal bool` on the `Context` type so you can know what "mode" you're in during the AnteHandler execution, then yes, we can absolutely define that API 👍 

Is this what you mean/want?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 2: Awesome. Yes that would be great. However there is one more thing which I am not quite sure how to solve with this proposed implementation. It's the final point I made in my previous comment.

> I am not sure how we would enforce an ordering or mandatory inclusion of a particular transaction in the proposal, because there would be no way to determine if we are processing the last transaction in the proposal within the context of an Antehandler.

My comment may have been confusing so I can try to clarify further. We have some two requirements that I think are important to communicate.
1. We want to enforce the proposer always maintain a specific ordering of certain types of transaction in the block. For example, an Oracle Price update transaction must always be the last transaction in the block, else the validator should reject the proposal. Obviously, we will reorder these transactions how we expect them in `PrepareProposal` using our custom Mempool implementation which implements your interface. This ordering requirement seems possible for us to hack together using your proposed AnteHandler implementation. We may just have to maintain a reference somewhere to the previous transaction run through the AnteHandler.
2. We want to enforce the proposer always include some "mandatory" transactions, else the validator should reject the proposal. This is the one I am less sure how we would do.

Can you think of a way to write an AnteHandler that could verify that some "mandatory" transaction was included in the Proposal during `ProcessProposal` in your proposed implementation?

One way I can think to do it is:
1. Write a custom AnteHandler.
2. For each transaction run through the AnteHandler, check if `IsProcessProposal` is true. If this transaction is a "mandatory" transaction, flip some global flag (or set a value on the Context).
4. Upon processing the final `Msg` in the proposal, check the global flag. If no "mandatory" `Msg` has been seen, reject the proposal.

Specifically it's step 3 that I am unsure about, as I don't think (within the context of this AnteHandler) we would know if we could if we are seeing the last transaction in the proposal. Does this make sense?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: > 1. ... For example, an Oracle Price update transaction must always be the last transaction in the block, else the validator should reject the proposal. Obviously, we will reorder these transactions how we expect them in PrepareProposal using our custom Mempool implementation which implements your interface. This ordering requirement seems possible for us to hack together using your proposed AnteHandler implementation.

Tx ordering and tx validation are two entirely separate things. You have complete control over how to order txs as you've pointed out. I'm having trouble understanding where the AnteHandler comes into play here? Note, keep in mind that txs are already executed via CheckTx and the AnteHandler was already executed for them. This all happens prior to `PrepareProposal`.

> 2. We want to enforce the proposer always include some "mandatory" transactions, else the validator should reject the proposal. This is the one I am less sure how we would do.

Pretty sure you can do this in your mempool implementation?

> Can you think of a way to write an AnteHandler that could verify that some "mandatory" transaction was included in the Proposal during ProcessProposal in your proposed implementation? 

Your proposal seems fine I think. Keep in mind, you can write your AnteHandlers however you wish. In fact, when `ProcessProposal` is called, you already have the **entire** set of `TxRecords` and you can easily pass these to your AnteHandler or do whatever you wish with them.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 2: > Pretty sure you can do this in your mempool implementation?

Right. To be clear, this has nothing to do with `PrepareProposal`, only `ProcessProposal`. That is to say – we want to validate that the proposer is being honest (ordering transactions correctly, and including "mandatory" transactions) and reject the proposal if they are not.

> you already have the entire set of TxRecords and you can easily pass these to your AnteHandler or do whatever you wish with them.

This might be the piece I am missing. I am not sure where this set of `TxRecords` would live. How can would we reference them from within the `AnteHandler`. Would they be on the `Context`?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: You pass them to the AnteHandler call. `ProcessProposal` will execute the AnteHandler. You can set the records on the `Context`.

An additional approach we can consider is to modify the `AnteHandler` method signature to now also accept a series of `TxRecords`? It's not clear to me the best approach. I don't want to get too much into the weeds in this ADR with regards to the `AnteHandler`, but it might be that when it comes to the implementation we modify the `AnteHandler` method signature.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: Update: See this comment by @sergio-mena https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/12838#discussion_r944813538

This looks like it might be an issue for you :-/

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 4: cc/ myself

Thanks @alexanderbez for noting the comment! FWIW, we understand the potential liveness implication associated with rejecting the proposal as noted in the linked comment as well as Requirement 6 & 7 in the [ABCI++ App Req doc](https://docs.tendermint.com/master/spec/abci++/abci++_app_requirements.html).

-------------

Going back to "how to validate the `TxRecords` ordering in `ProcessProposal`" topic, how I imagine things would work is:

1. `ProcessProposal` is called with `[]TxRecord`
2. for each `TxRecord` in `[]TxRecord`     
           (2a) call AnteHandler on a single `TxRecord`

Potentially, there are a few different ways to perform a "validate the ordering" check:

* Option A: between 1 and 2, call "validate the msg ordering" func on `[]TxRecord` and allow the application to define this func
* Option B: inside the loop in 2, AnteHandler knows which index the current `TxRecord` is and what msgs we've seen so far (i.e. all the msgs that were part of previous `TxRecord`s)
* Option C: instead of calling AnteHandler on a single `TxRecord`, allow AnteHandler to accept the entire list of `TxRecord` (i.e. `[]TxRecord`) and the AnteHandler can call "validate the msg ordering" on `[]TxRecord`

I think it would be nice to be able to do Option A, but not sure if this can be supported. Alternatively, Option B or Option C would be okay too (I believe Bryce was asking how B and C would actually work)

Let me know if I am misunderstanding anything!

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: Your proposal requires no changes to the AnteHandler as it already takes a `tx` as an argument. Recall, a `TxRecord` is just a bytes blob which is decoded into a `Tx`.

> Option A: between 1 and 2, call "validate the msg ordering" func on []TxRecord and allow the application to define this func

I don't think this is viable as this would require the execution to happen in `ProcessProposal` which is custom to your app. It's not general enough.

I would recommend option B honestly.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 4: > I don't think this is viable as this would require the execution to happen in ProcessProposal which is custom to your app. It's not general enough.

Could you help elaborate on what you mean by "require the execution to happen"? In this specific example, I think the "validate" would iterate through the transactions and inspect msgs across all transactions. Does this count as an execution?

> I would recommend option B honestly.

With the current AnteHandler impl, is it possible to know, for example, "all the msgs that were part of previous transactions" inside AnteHandler? 

------------
Based on [this discussion](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/12838#discussion_r948229670), it seems like `ProcessProposal` interface will be generic enough that the app has the ability to insert custom logic (something like "validate the ordering of all msgs/txns"). Is this a correct understanding? Does this mean Option A is  doable?

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer 2: The new design [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/pull/12838#discussion_r948229670) addresses all of the concerns from the dYdX side around `ProcessProposal`. I believe this thread can be resolved.

> ### `ProcessProposal`

Reviewer: This entire convo is now moot as we've now modified the ADR to allow the app to entirely define `ProcessProposal`. Resolving.

The `ProcessProposal` ABCI method is relatively straightforward. It is responsible
for ensuring validity of the proposed block containing transactions that were
selected from the `PrepareProposal` step. In order to check validity of the proposed
block, we must iterate over the list of transactions and execute them using the
same mode/execution strategy as `CheckTx`. In other words, we execute each transaction
using the AnteHandler only -- no messages are executed. However, we cannot just
execute `CheckTx` again, because `BaseApp` already has a modified `checkState` at
this point. So when executing `ProcessProposal`, we create a similar branched
state, `processProposalState`, off of `deliverState`. Using `processProposalState`
we execute the AnteHandler for each transaction. Note, the `processProposalState`

> is never committed and is completely discarded after `ProcessProposal` completes.

Reviewer 2: If the application always ignores transactions in the Tendermint mempool in favor of its own transactions, how does Tendermint know which transactions to evict from its own mempool? My understanding is that the only time a transaction is evicted from `clist_mempool` is if it fails check/recheck, or if it is committed in a block.

Reviewer 5: Presumably [TxRecord.TxAction](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/master/spec/abci%2B%2B/abci++_methods.md#txrecord) in `ResponsePrepareProposal.tx_records` informs Tendermint from the app.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense in the case that `Tendermint` knows about the replacement transaction, but suppose the Application replaces all transactions with new transactions which did not originate from the Tendermint mempool.

Referring to this case:
> Note, the application can even _replace_ transactions entirely with other transactions.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense. That would solve the case I am describing. It's unclear from this ADR whether a custom implementation of the Cosmos Mempool would provide the ability for the Application to decide whether transactions should be marked as `REMOVED` in the `tx_records` response to Tendermint.

Reviewer 5: Agreed..

>If the Application considers that tx should not be proposed in this block, e.g., there are other transactions with higher priority, then it should not include it in tx_records. In this case, Tendermint will not remove tx from the mempool. The Application should be extra-careful, as abusing this feature may cause transactions to stay much longer than needed in the mempool.

Could the accumulation of many valid but low priority txs crash the app by filling the mempool?

Reviewer 2: @alexanderbez Would it make sense for the `ReapMaxBytes` interface to have an additional return value of `[]TxAction` as well corresponding to the [TxAction](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/master/spec/abci%2B%2B/abci++_methods.md#txaction) struct in the `tx_records` return value of [ResponsePrepareProposal](https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/master/spec/abci%2B%2B/abci++_methods.md#parameters-and-types-1). We could assume the slice to be ordered in the same manner as the `txRecords` argument, and under the hood Cosmos could combine these slices together to form the `tx_records` return value to Tendermint.

This would allow custom Cosmos mempool implementations to determine which transactions should be evicted from the mempool, which would be helpful for our usecase.

Reviewer: Yeah, great point. I've updated `ReapMaxBytes`. Please lmk what you think :)

which allows for parallel execution possibilities.

## Decision

We will integrate the first phase of ABCI++, which will be introduced in Tendermint
v0.37.0, in the next major release of the Cosmos SDK. We will integrate the two
aforementioned ABCI++ methods on the `BaseApp` type. We describe the implementations
of the two methods individually below.

Prior to describing the implementation of the two new methods, it is important to
note that the existing ABCI methods, `CheckTx`, `DeliverTx`, etc, still exist and
serve the same functions as they do now.

### `PrepareProposal`

Prior to evaluating the decision for how to implement `PrepareProposal`, it is
important to note that `CheckTx` will still be executed and will be responsible
for evaluating transaction validity as it does now, with one very important
_additive_ distinction.

When executing transactions in `CheckTx`, the application will now add valid
transactions, i.e. passing the AnteHandler, to it's own mempool data structure.
In order to provide a flexible approach to meet the varying needs of application
developers, we will define both a mempool interface and a data structure utilizing

> Golang generics that will allow developers to only need to focus on transaction

Reviewer 5: nitpick:
```suggestion
Golang generics, allowing developers to focus only on transaction
```

// possible, only requiring applications to define the size of the transaction
// to be used when reaping and getting the transaction itself. Interface type
// casting can be used in the actual mempool implementation.
type MempoolTx interface {
	// Size returns the size of the transaction in bytes.
	Size(codec.Codec) int
	Tx() sdk.Tx
}

type Mempool[T MempoolTx] interface {
	// Insert attempts to insert a MempoolTx into the mempool returning an error
	// upon failure.
	Insert(T) error
	// Reap returns the next available transaction in the mempool, returning an error
	// upon failure. The notion of 'available' or 'next' is defined by the application's
	// mempool implementation.
	Reap() (T, error)
	// ReapMaxBytes performs the the same function as Reap, except it returns
	// multiple transactions limited by their total size.
	ReapMaxBytes(n int) ([]T, error)
	// NumTxs returns the number of transactions currently in the mempool.
	NumTxs() int
}
```

We will define an implementation of `Mempool[T MempoolTx]` that will cover a
majority of application use cases. Namely, it will prioritize transactions by
priority and transaction sender, allowing for multiple prioritized transactions

> from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a B+Tree

Reviewer: Yeah so keep in mind the idea is have an interface that is as general as possible s.t. app devs can implement their mempools however they wish and in the SDK we would provide an implementation of such an interface that should cover most basic use cases.

The general idea of the data structure implementation would need to operate as follows when it comes to insertion and reaping:

> - Does this tx's sender have another tx in the mempool?
>    - If not, compare the priority (based on fees)
>    - If so, pick the one with the lowest nonce first

Now that I think of it, I think a B+Tree might overkill or might not even work. Here's another idea I have:

Use a simple priority queue and insert txs into the priority queue by simple tx priority (i.e. fees). When reaping, reap and select txs s.t. there is no nonce conflict. If there is a nonce conflict, keep reaping until you've selected enough txs. Put all conflicting nonces back into the heap. So reaping would be `O(klogn)`, where `k` is typically small (`k <= 1000`).

> Also, how would ReapMaxBytes() be implemented efficiently while maintaining priority?

You would (1) reap, (2) evaluate tx size, and continue until you've hit the max bytes, putting the last tx back in if it exceeds size.

> from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a B+Tree

Reviewer 5: Is there an alternative with O(logn) `Insert` and O(1) `Delete` ?

> from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a B+Tree

Reviewer: The more I think about it, the more I just want to use a two-phase reap using a simple priority queue.

> from the same sender. The mempool will be defined as a wrapper around a B+Tree

Reviewer 6: > The more I think about it, the more I just want to use a two-phase reap using a simple priority queue.

I agree, I think a simple priority queue as a binary heap makes sense.

> Is there an alternative with O(logn) Insert and O(1) Delete? B+Tree being O(logn) on both.

I didn't account for `Reap()` also removing the element (only considered the "get" semantics). With the removal, the time complexity is the same for both the simple and the btree implementation. However, I still think that btree `ReapMaxBytes()` would be more difficult to implement so a simple priority queue might suffice

While an ADR is in the DRAFT or PROPOSED stage, this section should contain a summary of issues to be solved in future iterations (usually referencing comments from a pull-request discussion).
Later, this section can optionally list ideas or improvements the author or reviewers found during the analysis of this ADR. -->

## References

* https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/master/spec/abci%2B%2B/README.md
* [1] https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/issues/7750#issuecomment-1076806155
* [2] https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/issues/7750#issuecomment-1075717151

<!-- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
<!-- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -->
<!-- ----------------------------------------------------------------------- -->

<!-- 
### Prepare Proposal

There are two designs being considered for `Prepare Proposal`:

#### App-defined Mempool

An app defined mempool is a mempool that lives within the application. Currently Tendermint houses all the ordering and block creation logic. While this abstractions simplifies applications it prohibits many usecases from being achieved. 

> The appside mempool is populated via `Checktx`. Tendermint will continue calling `Checktx` for the application to verify the validity of a transaction. When the application receives the transaction, it will add it to its own mempool. While the app is continuing the app will have the option to modify or order transactions within any preference it would like. The ordering of transactions is optional for full nodes. When a block is being proposed, Tendermint will send an array of bytes to the application and ask if the bytes are to be included in the block or replaced with transactions the app would like. At this time the application can replace, modify or delete transcations from the array of bytes. 

Reviewer 6: > While the app is continuing the app will have the option to modify or order transactions within any preference it would like

Consider being specific that modifications happen in `PrepareProposal` since `CheckTx` is also referenced above and might confuse the reader

> {decision body}

## Consequences

> This section describes the resulting context, after applying the decision. All consequences should be listed here, not just the "positive" ones. A particular decision may have positive, negative, and neutral consequences, but all of them affect the team and project in the future.

### Backwards Compatibility

> All ADRs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The ADR must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. ADR submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.

### Positive

{positive consequences}

### Negative

{negative consequences}

### Neutral

{neutral consequences}

## Further Discussions

While an ADR is in the DRAFT or PROPOSED stage, this section should contain a summary of issues to be solved in future iterations (usually referencing comments from a pull-request discussion).
Later, this section can optionally list ideas or improvements the author or reviewers found during the analysis of this ADR.

> 

Reviewer 6: Is it worthwhile evaluating some of the requirements for the application anywhere in this document?
https://github.com/tendermint/tendermint/blob/master/spec/abci%2B%2B/abci%2B%2B_app_requirements.md#formal-requirements

I think coherence (Requirement 5) might be the requirement  where it is easy to make a mistake
